Brandon Cordova: Hello.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Oh, you're very low.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Very low. I can't hear you well.
Brandon Cordova: Okay, hold on.
Brandon Cordova: Can you hear me better. Yes. Okay.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So I'm Jessica. One of the therapist will bring her health and we are pointing to complete a bio psychosocial today, so I will be asking you.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Some questions about your past life as long as present life about you individually about your family, so I'll be asking lots of questions. And the reason for that is that a requirement in the program is to just have an overall history.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Of the patient so that we can find out the best way that we can support you in your sobriety. Okay.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Okay, um,
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And so what you, what will happen is, at the end of the session with towards the end of the session, we will develop a treatment plan.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And then that treatment plan. I will discuss some of the goals ality just embedded in the program that we have and then I'll have you also join in by discussing in the short term, long term goals that you have yourself right
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: All right, Phil, as we're talking and you're giving me information you thinking about some, some of the goals that you want for yourself for being in this program. Okay.
All right.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So let's start. Tell me, what brings you to write heart health program.
Brandon Cordova: Or where I live. They don't have a sandbox and program and not going to have to travel. So I just I googled it. And I found online Dr fighter.
Brandon Cordova: Here.
Where do you live,
Brandon Cordova: Clovis, New Mexico.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: I never heard of that one. I'm in Florida. So I'm I'm two hours ahead of you. So I'm always trying to figure out the different cities in Mexico.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Albuquerque Santa Fe.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: There's another one smaller time I had
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: In his injury.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: He Everton
Brandon Cordova: I'm
Brandon Cordova: No longer okay that was
Brandon Cordova: You know,
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: I think it starts with the e
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Edgewood
Brandon Cordova: Oh yeah, there's an Android. Yeah.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yes. And, and so and now you say your name clover.
Brandon Cordova: Clover
Oh, this one.
Brandon Cordova: About 10 minutes from the Texas border.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: 10 minutes away from where
Brandon Cordova: From the Texas border.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Oh, okay. So you're very close to Texas.
Brandon Cordova: Okay. All right.
Brandon Cordova: So,
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Why are you seeking treatment. Now, tell me about the course of your addiction.
Brandon Cordova: Like about
Brandon Cordova: Three, four years ago I decided to try care home.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Three, four years ago.
Yeah.
Brandon Cordova: I'm 37 now I tried it for my first time when I was 33 I lost. I lost Eric investing two, three years.
Brandon Cordova: And I ended up in prison because
Brandon Cordova: They don't want to stop the video.
Brandon Cordova: Perelman land. You know, I went to prison.
Brandon Cordova: Now, no.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: I'm really struggling to hear you. Is there a way that you can set up or
Brandon Cordova: Just a speaker thing on. Can you hear me better now.
Brandon Cordova: Yeah, okay.
Brandon Cordova: Okay.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Um, so we do have 33 you decided to
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Try heroin. You said
Brandon Cordova: Yes. Okay.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: What would be events going on or or the life events that were going on that made you decide that you wanted to try and heroin.
Brandon Cordova: Oh, wow. Just model rod just
Brandon Cordova: Try to to try it and
Brandon Cordova: Like, people would tell me that I was going to get sick and all this.
Brandon Cordova: Off. I know you don't get sick off drugs.
Brandon Cordova: Sure. No.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: I can't hear you.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yeah. Can you repeat that, that comment.
Brandon Cordova: Oh yeah, I was doing it before you know it, I will post on
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Prior to the heroin.
Brandon Cordova: Oh yeah, I tried math before you know marijuana but
Brandon Cordova: I didn't use it all the time.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: When did you first try near one.
Brandon Cordova: Probably as a teenager, like 13 and
Brandon Cordova: I mean, I am
Brandon Cordova: A medical patient in New Mexico. So, I mean, I may be smoked at once a month, but I don't really like it.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: A medical patient. Do you have a chronic illness.
Brandon Cordova: Yeah for PTSD and then
Brandon Cordova: Just for Bob. My bipolar and stuff.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Like that it with marijuana
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Was that something that you're doing on a daily occurrence. Was it more recreational
Brandon Cordova: Yes, more recreational
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So how often were you doing
Brandon Cordova: at like three, four times a week and
Brandon Cordova: I just knew were really kept me away from the drugs, growing up is like I always been incarcerated.
Brandon Cordova: So like our doing now go jail prison for two, three years now for three months, six months, go back for another two or three years back and forth, back and forth.
Brandon Cordova: Well, all the times I've ever been to prison up a never try here when like a dumb ass. I decided to do it when I got out. Yeah.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: I had to do some other drugs before that. I'll just need to hear when
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: You go back and figure out what happened before the heroin.
Brandon Cordova: Whoa, what happened to my life and the girl that I cheated on with she was using her
Brandon Cordova: And that's really how it happened. Yeah.
Brandon Cordova: Yes. She would tell me you're gonna get sick and you see. Can you see done drugs before you don't get sick, welcome.
Brandon Cordova: And
Brandon Cordova: Ma'am before. Yeah. One time I have some locks in and I I snorted. Some and I just started feeling all weird and stuff and then
Brandon Cordova: That's when I tried to quit and I realized that I couldn't time
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: First out of the heroin.
Brandon Cordova: Oh, I'm not the fair shot but
Brandon Cordova: After I had done the naloxone I realize they can't quit this no more. After doing it for three, four months.
Brandon Cordova: How body was already hooked to it. Yeah.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So MARIJUANA AND THEN, THERE WAS NO WHERE DID IT progress from the marijuana to the map. And were there any other jobs before you transition to the
Brandon Cordova: Law, and I've been doing probably math, often on for since I was
Brandon Cordova: Probably around that age, too, but
Brandon Cordova: Yeah, I'll get locked up. And now I don't really care for it.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: At the age of 13
Yes.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And how long were you using these drugs.
Brandon Cordova: Maybe
Brandon Cordova: Two, three times a week for a couple months and then I'll go to either prison or back to youth detention center and and not get out
Brandon Cordova: So like
Brandon Cordova: Maybe two, three months at the longest
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: But for how long from 13 to what age.
Brandon Cordova: Oh well.
Brandon Cordova: Probably like 13 to like maybe
Brandon Cordova: Around what 30
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Okay. All right. And then there was the hair.
Brandon Cordova: Yeah, I tried hair. It was I was doing clean for a while and
Brandon Cordova: I tried here when when I was 33 and 37 now so
Brandon Cordova: Oh I for a while because I hadn't got a nine year cynics back in 2009
Brandon Cordova: And I ended up getting out in 2013 and so like I was 30 so maybe for like three years. Okay. And then while I was in prison to I was clean to
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Be clean from any drugs.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yes, you did you go to any other type of programs to treat your addiction.
Brandon Cordova: Um, I mean in prison, I would go to like therapeutic community and stuff to try to stay clean but I mean
Brandon Cordova: It that stuff is everywhere in there and it was
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: When you're out. Yeah, because I know in jail. There's different programs. But when you are out of jail.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Did you go right back to the drill. So did you check into a different type of program residential treatment detox.
Brandon Cordova: Oh yeah. After, after I started the hair when my mom went to detoxes in Amarillo, Texas.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: For how long
Brandon Cordova: They were just seven day detox is at a time.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And how long would you be sober after the seven days.
Brandon Cordova: Now get out. I'll go right back to it.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And right back to it would be what the math or the heroin.
All the heroin.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Which you have all the history together. So from 13 to 30 it was marijuana and then
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: You just 33 you got introduced to heroin. So there was a three year span. We were sober.
Yes.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: What was going on that you were able to speak for three years.
Brandon Cordova: Oh my god just got out of prison and I was on I have five years probation, so I wasn't really trying to mess up.
Brandon Cordova: And then towards the end of it. That's
Brandon Cordova: That's what I have that affair and I just quit carry
Brandon Cordova: Just me and my wife fighting all the time over nothing she she thinking I was cheating on Ernie and then I'll go to my friends in
Brandon Cordova: Just one day I ran off with this girl that she was accusing me with and I mean she's real real pretty. And I just, I don't know, I just
Brandon Cordova: She, she was using heroin and I ended up using it.
Brandon Cordova: All over none tools is stupid.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: About kind of drug treatment. Have you seen a therapist before
Brandon Cordova: Yes.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Wait, when did you see it there.
Brandon Cordova: Oh well, she's a therapist out here to for for my parole.
Brandon Cordova: So I go, I go to classes, three times a week.
Brandon Cordova: And then I have one counseling session, so that's that's the most recent okay
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: In the past, any other type of ongoing therapy achievement.
Brandon Cordova: Um, we're not not outpaced just wasn't incarcerated and stuff. Yeah.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And you mentioned that you were diagnosed with PTSD and bipolar.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Diagnosis do. And are you taking medication.
Brandon Cordova: Or not. I don't take none of that stuff. But I've been diagnosed by several doctors back in the past.
Brandon Cordova: I think the last one was like in
Brandon Cordova: Oh 807
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Was the reason for the diagnosis of PTSD.
Brandon Cordova: Or just from being involved in gangs and stuff.
Brandon Cordova: In and out of prison.
Brandon Cordova: To seeing stuff.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Right, I wanna explore that upbringing with you, but I just want to get this out the way because there's always this random question about vaccines and I'll forget to ask them stop always to act became. Are you up to date on your flu and pneumonia and meningitis vaccine.
Brandon Cordova: Yes. Okay, great.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So now let's backtrack.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: I'm hearing in and out of jail 13 year old still marijuana in man I'm raising sentence gang activity. So talk to me about your childhood friend and what was it like growing up to you.
Brandon Cordova: Oh, I mean, it was good. I have a good family me just, I'm just always made the wrong decisions. I didn't care.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So, um, what was your family consisted of both parents tell me about who all is in the home, making this growing up.
Brandon Cordova: Oh just mom. My mom and then my, my mom dad got divorced when I was nine, and then they got back
Brandon Cordova: Or they got divorced when I was nine. And then my dad like stayed out my life to like 12 and you've been there ever since. But I just I just chose to just not care.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Do you have any siblings.
Brandon Cordova: Yeah, I got one sister.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Are you the oldest to the youngest
Brandon Cordova: The oldest
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: What's your relationship like with your sister.
It's good.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Describe the. How often do you speak to him.
Brandon Cordova: Like
Brandon Cordova: Three times a week.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: In Mexico, awesome.
Brandon Cordova: Yes, she is about five blocks down the street for
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Parents still living.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yes. Okay. What's your relationship like with your parents.
Brandon Cordova: Um, it's good. I'll have no problems and just sighs me getting in trouble as
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: They also in Mexico.
Yes.
Brandon Cordova: My dad is an
Brandon Cordova: Albuquerque. My mom lives here in Clovis, okay.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: What do you live with right now.
Brandon Cordova: Right now I live with my mom and my kids.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: How many kids see. Yeah.
Brandon Cordova: I got five
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yeah five kids five kids in your mother.
Brandon Cordova: Go for a woman. Oh my. One of my daughters stays in Albuquerque with her grandma. Okay.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Are the five kids from your ex wife, where they have different baby mothers.
Brandon Cordova: Oh,
Brandon Cordova: I got three baby mamas.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And backtrack. So you had PTSD bipolar, um, we've ever hospitalized because you try to
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Be a threat to yourself harm yourself or harm someone else.
Brandon Cordova: Ma.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Do you have a history of
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Suicidal thoughts plans. Anything of that nature.
Not
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So fill in the blanks for me with all of this or not. Right. Um, you have to raise with both your parents, your dad left at the age of nine.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: He came back to your life when you were 12
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: We came back in your life. Does that mean your parents were back together, where he just reconnected with you and your sister.
Brandon Cordova: Yeah, just like reconnected
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Okay and so
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: What made you decide that you wanted to try the mail one and
Brandon Cordova: Gone on does have to time as
Brandon Cordova: People were doing and I just want to get high go out on the weekends.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Where you engage around that time.
Brandon Cordova: Yeah.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: How are your grades in school.
Brandon Cordova: Their batteries. I just quit.
Brandon Cordova: Like I didn't, I didn't care like it to me. All that stuff is useless ammonium us none of it now. So I just I quit going or I would they made me go and I just, like, all right, I'm gonna go to sleep here now.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Well with the highest level of
Brandon Cordova: Education you completed. I ended up graduating, I got an IP diplomas are graduating from the New Mexico, boys.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Does your mother have any type of mental health or substance abuse. History
Brandon Cordova: No children drink or smoke or not.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: But any mental health diagnosis.
Brandon Cordova: Know,
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: How about any medical issues that you know
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: What about your dad.
Brandon Cordova: Um no I do my mom I have diabetes. Let's see.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Your dad any medical mental health or substance abuse. History
No.
Brandon Cordova: No.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: What are the ages of the children.
Brandon Cordova: I'm 1613 1110 and nine. Okay.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: How do you have custody of is it full custody or joint custody with the for children.
Brandon Cordova: Of course, to all number one.
Brandon Cordova: My, my youngest daughter, she
Brandon Cordova: She lives with her grandparents.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And their mothers involved for that. Yeah.
Brandon Cordova: Yeah, mothers are cool.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Not cool, are they involved in the children's life.
Oh, yeah.
Brandon Cordova: Yeah, we share in the day.
Brandon Cordova: Like they don't fight me over it or not just just my daughter's mom. Okay.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: But the children live with you.
Brandon Cordova: Yes.
Brandon Cordova: I was gonna take custody from from our daughters mom and she knew it, so she gave it to her.
Brandon Cordova: Parents without me knowing and so I couldn't get it.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So how did this arrangement come to be
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: That
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: The children are with you full time and it's not split between you and the mothers.
Brandon Cordova: Um, well, my, my son's mom. My oldest
Brandon Cordova: She's always just never kept them from me. My mom just always when I go to prison. She's, she's, she's always raised them so
Brandon Cordova: And then my other three with my wife for
Brandon Cordova: starters with me.
Brandon Cordova: And my wife, she ended up hooked on heroin, too. So she's a rehab right now.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: That happened because the one you had an affair with is the one that you said kind of actually introduced to him. But now, your wife is on here. Did you have an influence on that with your wife.
Brandon Cordova: Yeah, like when we got back together, she was, she was real her and she was like, you know, but it was, it wasn't from drugs and on is from just being cheated on and she's oh well if you're going to do it. I want to try it. And I didn't know nothing about being sick yet so I gave her soul.
Brandon Cordova: And
Brandon Cordova: I'm I see Barry. This was 2015 and she barely went to rehab like a month ago.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: She's been addicted.
Brandon Cordova: Yeah, longer than what I have. What stopped me is I went to prison for 18 months.
Brandon Cordova: But I mean, I kind of use the Suboxone there. And then when I got out and started using this
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: The children have experienced both of their parents be exposed to drones.
Brandon Cordova: Yeah.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Do you know any of them. I
Brandon Cordova: Know,
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: You say that with
My
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Conviction
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: How, what makes you know
Brandon Cordova: The what
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: I say, you said that with a lot of conviction. What makes you know that your kids are not
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Doing any job.
Brandon Cordova: Oh, because I mean they're here all the time. I mean, they don't they don't go out and party or nothing.
Brandon Cordova: Well, I was in
Brandon Cordova: Prison. My mom had kids.
Brandon Cordova: Or cheating. But one of the grandparents calls you IoT so like they kind of got involved, but we didn't lose them or not like that.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So you're still married or what's your marital status.
Brandon Cordova: You're married
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: How long is your wife been in
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: treatment program.
Brandon Cordova: Um, I said, like maybe a month now maybe like four or five weeks.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: She in our program.
Brandon Cordova: I don't know. I think she's like turquoise and Albuquerque. I don't think they let him use the phone for the first couple months are there. So I haven't heard from her in a while. Okay.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So you know of anyone. Do you have anyone that you know that's also in our bright heart health program.
Brandon Cordova: Um, well, I met I seen one girl in my counseling class Friday on and then she goes to my other counseling class and I noticed her and I just said, Hi, but that's about it.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Okay, but no, I'm making sure that you don't have any family members relatives spouse. That's also in our program know up. Just make sure because I can't see. We can't. That would be a conflict of interest that would be called a dual relationship. So I have to make sure
Brandon Cordova: That will not see
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: You and say, for example, your wife.
Brandon Cordova: Oh god.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: That would be an issue.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So your wife has
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Drug history of heroin. Any other drugs.
Brandon Cordova: Just marijuana but I mean it's legal here.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: She have any mental health history.
Know,
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: What's the plan when she gets out
Brandon Cordova: Of all this work and just get back to our lives. I mean,
Brandon Cordova: We had a couple houses businesses, everything was asked at all our Winnebago
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: I want to ask more about that. The first one actually the question, how does that, how does, how do you see both of you function.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: In your recovery from both of you both you to sobriety.
Brandon Cordova: Oh, I mean us good. I mean, now that because like I used to try some boxing, but it never really did nothing to me what I want to try to imprison Whoa, when we
Brandon Cordova: And
Brandon Cordova: So, I mean, it's like, it's just a way of coping with it and it's not putting a hole in my pocket, and I've got to put in the holes in my arms and shit like that.
Brandon Cordova: I mean, can I have a lamb like to feel like doing
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: You like what filling the Suboxone with
The heroin.
Brandon Cordova: And I mean Suboxone it's really not the same, but I mean it's close enough for me because I don't want to go down that route again.
Brandon Cordova: So I'm willing to compromise because I don't want to lose everything like that game.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: What was going on when you got. Okay, so tell me about the losing everything. Tell me who you are. Before the addiction and then when it all went down him.
Brandon Cordova: Oh, Rod got out of prison and I got a business grant and I opened
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: A Year With this
Brandon Cordova: Oh my god out in 2013 or 2012 in December.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: 2012 your release from prison, you get a business brand in there what
Brandon Cordova: Opened up a Joker's custom t's, and then I opened up high plains graphic designs and then open a smoke shop and I was doing good. I'm everything was going good.
Brandon Cordova: And
Brandon Cordova: Just little by little, I guess my wife started fighting, fighting
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: About infidelity.
Brandon Cordova: No wasn't even down here, but she thinking cheating on her and I think it vice versa and
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: You know, at the
Brandon Cordova: Time, you know, one was even cheating. So I just said f it yeah i mean
Brandon Cordova: And
Brandon Cordova: That's when I just started using heroin.
Brandon Cordova: I was kicking around people, women that grows using it.
Brandon Cordova: When a boyfriend kicked her out my wife kind of kicked me out, just we stay in a motel for like three months together and start using it.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Then you are both in relationships.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: There are boyfriend found out your wife found out, and then you guys live in YouTube live in LA hotel, two, three months.
Yeah.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: What's your relationship like with
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: The young lady now.
Brandon Cordova: Autonomous here.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So when the addiction was at its worse.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: What year was it what was going
Brandon Cordova: On. Well, I mean, at first it was
Brandon Cordova: It was bizarre is manageable. But, little by little, like, I start selling more cars for, you know, I'd have no car. No Neff, and so by 2000. Let's see. What do we 19 2020 so around 2018
Brandon Cordova: When I went to prison is when I lost everything and loss.
Brandon Cordova: And I just
Brandon Cordova: Ended up where I didn't have
Brandon Cordova: Nothing, pretty much, and not just on the streets and me and my wife, my wife walking everywhere.
Brandon Cordova: I mean, we will go get heroin and like I get so much that we go to like five ounces. Some time a week and then I'll sell it to
Brandon Cordova: Buy another five but our addiction was so much. We're doing like between the both was like seven grams a day, got up to
Brandon Cordova: And it was literally money.
Brandon Cordova: And even like that wasn't even a note, we still run out and man will be there like ripping out our chairs screaming
Brandon Cordova: That painful and awful.
Brandon Cordova: For my mother.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: She's held it down for you for a long time.
Yeah.
Brandon Cordova: What has been your
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Mother's thoughts on your addiction.
Brandon Cordova: To just don't like it at all.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Watching your children. How has she supported. Yes.
We should hold you accountable.
Brandon Cordova: Oh yeah, man.
Brandon Cordova: She tries to me.
Brandon Cordova: Oh, she just
Brandon Cordova: Tried to make me, like, get a job, and, like, ever since I found heroin, like she don't
Brandon Cordova: Well, up until now, but like when I was on it. She would
Brandon Cordova: She would do nothing for me.
Brandon Cordova: Just cut me off.
Brandon Cordova: From the heroin. I think I did some last time was in May. Okay.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Well, you said from heroin. So what else did you try after me.
Brandon Cordova: Or just do the Suboxone
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Okay, I gotta accident to say from heroin and then next thing you know i know that was something else that happened after me. All right, make sure I got it all together. Okay, so, um,
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Let's talk about the THE LEGAL IN and OUT OF JAIL. When did that well prison. When did it all start
Brandon Cordova: Well, she ever since I was what 13 is my first time and
Brandon Cordova: I got out of the New Mexico boys school when I was 19 and their
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: State OUT FOR LUCKY 13 tell me the charge and how long
Brandon Cordova: I think it was a solid battery in the household memory. And I don't know, I went to July 26 times, you know,
Brandon Cordova: It'll my sister. I was laying on the ground and she kicked me and I hit her. And they were just looking for a reason to put me in jail because I wasn't listening. So they said, the next time they have to come over, they're going to put me in jail for anything.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: What what me to escalate to law enforcement.
Brandon Cordova: Because I just was out of control, and I wouldn't listen
Brandon Cordova: So they kind of trip. My mom telling her that she put me on probation, it would it would help me out and she would get a grip on me, but that she just made me worse.
Brandon Cordova: Yes, there are wonderful.
Brandon Cordova: Oh,
Brandon Cordova: Man, I probably I didn't stay out.
Brandon Cordova: Till 19 like I probably did like
Brandon Cordova: 13 to 19 I'll probably like did a good four or five years.
Brandon Cordova: So it was just in and out.
Brandon Cordova: Yeah.
Brandon Cordova: I probably maybe stayed out the longest three months.
Brandon Cordova: I got out of Mexico boy school and
Brandon Cordova: I was riding around with some friends and they they did a robbery and I was the only adult so I got convicted with contributing to mainstream a minor and I went to prison for a four year
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So 20
Brandon Cordova: Oh well i i was like
Brandon Cordova: I ended up going. I think when I was around 21
Brandon Cordova: So like to like 25 oh
Brandon Cordova: And then I got out.
Brandon Cordova: And
Brandon Cordova: See I stayed out for like maybe a year or two, and then I went back for like 33 months.
Brandon Cordova: For trafficking.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Trafficking
Brandon Cordova: Yeah, no drugs.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: You got to be clear branding.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Okay, trafficking.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: 23. And then, after that what happened.
Brandon Cordova: Oh, well I got out and that's when I met my wife and I decided I was gonna try to do good and
Brandon Cordova: I was 30
Brandon Cordova: And as I yeah I'm done with trouble. I'm done, breaking the laws in I didn't go for a while, man.
Brandon Cordova: And I have gone
Brandon Cordova: 20
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: To 30 years in jail. This was the longest time, that was served right with your chocolate.
Brandon Cordova: Yes, I did.
Brandon Cordova: Five years probation and then not 33 months in prison for that.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So once you
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Know,
Brandon Cordova: I'm
Brandon Cordova: On this last one I was convicted for aggravated fleeing a law enforcement officer.
Brandon Cordova: And I'll sentenced to 30 months and
Brandon Cordova: I did half of that which was like 18 little more and I got out.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: What age of
Brandon Cordova: 30 I'm 37 so I went in. When I was 35 oh
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Right now you're on probation.
Brandon Cordova: Parole now.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Hello, you were when we were breaking out what age.
Brandon Cordova: This last time.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yeah.
Brandon Cordova: Well, I just barely got out December 10th.
Why
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: All the pieces together. Alright, so, but from a
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: From a voiceover
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yeah, so when you got out in December. Did you use
Brandon Cordova: Oh no, not heroin just Suboxone
Brandon Cordova: And then I use heroin one time in prison and may
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Know, I know I must be very naive in LA, but it always shocked me when you see that they were shooting heroin in jail.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And you know it. We hear it personal. But, but this is just an isolated case but this will happen a lot because there's several patients that don't want to make it seem like this is of course of being in jail. You can have access to the drunk.
Brandon Cordova: Good like Suboxone into Mexico. So it's a big theme.
Brandon Cordova: Yeah, they sell it in there for 800 a strip
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Well,
Yes.
Brandon Cordova: It's $100 and he
But
Brandon Cordova: Yeah.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Alright, so I went through your family history and know about in the marital status which parenting, the time you graduate from high school and you are entrepreneurial several businesses, those are all shut down. I know last those businesses, um, what's your current employment status.
Brandon Cordova: Oh,
Brandon Cordova: Well, I went back to the DVR. I'm in the process now of getting another business grass. One thing about that program is they they cannot
Brandon Cordova: discriminate on you. So I was completely honest with them everything that happened. And they're like, well, we can't discriminate. So we're going to help you again so
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: What are you thinking of starting this one.
Brandon Cordova: Um, I wanted to do a
Brandon Cordova: Two of them. I wanted to do a start my own clothing line and then I wanted to get some hot dog carts and make people to do hot dog vending for me.
Brandon Cordova: Yeah, I mean, because with anything. It's just all how you market it isn't a millionaire off everything. So, I mean, I'm pretty good business orientation minded.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Did you take any courses in that way. It just comes natural.
Brandon Cordova: I'm just
Brandon Cordova: As I was raised. My mom always had her own business.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: What was the business.
Brandon Cordova: She had a secondhand stores cause second best.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Um, how would you describe your financial status.
Brandon Cordova: Right now, I mean, I get my disability. So
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Disability
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Or
Brandon Cordova: Just from being incarcerated or all my life, they give it to me.
Brandon Cordova: And then from my PTSD and all that.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: I'm currently in a romantic relationship.
Brandon Cordova: Ah, yeah, I'm married.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: yaks now because she's away so
Brandon Cordova: Oh yeah, no, I'm not. I'm not going down that road.
Brandon Cordova: Just waiting for her.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Alright so let me just make sure I've covered all bases. I usually do. I'm also like a checklist. I'm growing up with there any history of physical, sexual abuse.
Nah.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Have you survived any natural disasters.
Know,
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: About any motor vehicle accident.
Brandon Cordova: No.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Were you ever in the military.
Know,
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: We ever a victim of a violent crime.
Brandon Cordova: No.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: He ever kidnapped and tortured.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Know any history of domestic violence.
No.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Possible while
Brandon Cordova: We're always thinking we're not in a domestic violence. All right.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Um, any car accidents.
Brandon Cordova: Know,
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: About any
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: A death of a loved one.
Brandon Cordova: Oh yeah, would
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Have like an emotional impact them.
Brandon Cordova: It does, but it's just part of life and i mean
Brandon Cordova: Oh I like
Brandon Cordova: 30 people die my fam. I got a big family since our kids.
Brandon Cordova: Mortgages died like what, two days ago so
Brandon Cordova: Thank you.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Witness any events any tragedies.
Brandon Cordova: I'm
Brandon Cordova: Not just like growing up and my mom, my friends were either shot or killed or
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Did you witness it is, you mentioned drug trafficking and gang involvement well
Brandon Cordova: Not in I haven't witnessed firsthand, but
Brandon Cordova: Just like funerals and still no
Brandon Cordova: All right.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Anything else that you think it's important for me to know about your upbringing, your childhood present day.
Brandon Cordova: Notice, like right now, I'm just at a point where, like, I like I've been done with gangs non issue for a while, but the point where I just
Brandon Cordova: Want to do good, or like everything's legal. Now for me, my goal, the streets and getting
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Your level of stress right now branded mild, moderate, or severe
Brandon Cordova: Stress
Brandon Cordova: Yeah, well, I don't. I never get dressed up like the types of this last everything on
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: It if you are stressed or father by something what what
Brandon Cordova: I'm just
Brandon Cordova: Ignorance.
Brandon Cordova: People
Brandon Cordova: Swear they talk and where they treat people dumb shit like that.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: We think is driving. What's your motivation.
Brandon Cordova: Well, I finally came to the realization. They're like bodies do everything that you like.
Brandon Cordova: And I can be stopped in LA.
Brandon Cordova: La pay my taxes and all that.
Brandon Cordova: I have anything I want. Just work for you.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: How do you deal with stress. Some people avoid it. Some people daydream. They do have things to keep yourself busy what's usually a strategy.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: For stress or
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Overwhelm where these things. You don't want to be bothered with it.
Brandon Cordova: Or not is laughing
Brandon Cordova: Like I'm type person if something makes me like nervous or festival, a tackle it until I no longer become nervous or stressed on
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: How would you rate yourself esteem.
Brandon Cordova: Um, it's good. Okay.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Do you have any challenges with long term or short term you
Brandon Cordova: Know,
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So What month are we
Brandon Cordova: Oh descent. Our January. Okay, see.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: You see, you said no. And then there was the first question can tell me in
Brandon Cordova: December, a trick question.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Okay, who's our current president
Brandon Cordova: Trump
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: President
Brandon Cordova: Bush.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: There's some, there's some gaps in your memory.
Brandon Cordova: Okay, I don't pay attention to the
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Forefront, it was Obama
Brandon Cordova: Okay, yeah, Obama. Okay.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: count backwards from 10 to
110 98765432
Brandon Cordova: Do you think you have
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Any challenges with long term or short term.
Brandon Cordova: No.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So in our, in our program. We have some goals that we have embedded within our program to hold you accountable because of sobriety accountability and purpose and is key. So
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Everyone that comes into the program is because they have an addiction. They have a dependence on drugs and they're exhibiting some physical symptoms.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Their life has been impacted. As a result, or they've invested a large time money in pursuing the drug, and then they continuously consume mood altering
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So in our program our short term goals is to
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Hold you accountable by attending group on a week to week basis and individual sessions as needed. So thank you for showing up today because if you miss more than three individual sessions or more than three boot sessions that we can in voluntarily distract you from the program.
Brandon Cordova: And we want to hold you accountable to the program.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And then we also want to help you to tap into ways for self fulfillment mind, body and soul. So in our plan. We have different foods topics that we discuss we invite patients to identify what their triggers are and to also connect with spirituality
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And if they have a spiritual practice.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Do you have any spiritual beliefs or connections.
Brandon Cordova: Yeah, I mean, I believe in God. So
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Um, it's a. What is that, what does that relationship look like do you go to church and pray explained the
Brandon Cordova: Whole that spirituality
Brandon Cordova: God just I prayed most pretty much it is like now I just I don't learn anything.
Brandon Cordova: Why try not to learn to like come between me and God versus
Brandon Cordova: Kind of art.
Brandon Cordova: I just believe like my body is my temple and like I really gotta go to church.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Mind, body and soul in connecting with that. So whatever your preferences, however you connect with outside of yourself and seeing the bigger purpose is fine. We just want identify if you have any spiritual
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And you have any emotional relationship or personal triggers.
Brandon Cordova: Oh,
Brandon Cordova: Mom, I really
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: am concerned that when you're the person that you use with a lot when she's
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Released that both of you. What happened hold each other accountable to this edition. So what I would see as a relationship trigger is if she gets a craving, you might get a craving and vice versa, if she confesses to you which. That's what we do in relationships. Right. And I got a craving.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Will you be strong enough to tell how to resist the craving and to not be tempted to just explore that craving together and get out
Brandon Cordova: Oh yeah but
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: In the room that we have to address. We can't make it seem like oh when she gets out you just gonna be clean will start a business method because that easy diction will not be a problem. So I just want to be direct and throw that out there, so you're aware of that will trigger
Brandon Cordova: Yeah, and that's good, that's kind of why I turned to Suboxone because, I mean, it still getting behind it. Oh, it replaces
Brandon Cordova: The need for the heroin something
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So I guess you would have to accommodate your wife, she'll be offering Suboxone or what was the
Brandon Cordova: Last time I talked to her when she was in detox. They had her on it to
Brandon Cordova: Cheat, and I, I didn't find this program here. So she don't even know about it.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Do you have any emotional triggers.
Brandon Cordova: Know, I really don't stress about the bull crap.
Brandon Cordova: Like from from being a prison line and locked up. I just learned to cut everything off my emotions machine.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Okay, you call who's, who's going to be your support during this time.
Brandon Cordova: Well, I got my mom and dad, my sister.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Alright, so in the program will be helping you to manage your cravings to identify a triggering utilize coping skills.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And then to decrease your, your exposure to risky environment but increase your exposure to supportive ones. That means everything that you've been doing
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: As far as going to different groups in person coming to you right how help you and anything else that you identify as support.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Our, our interventions we use is cognitive behavioral therapy and you identify your thoughts and and catch unhealthy thinking patterns to do some dialectical behavior therapy to that might be like homework activities assignments mindful practice.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And then we always encourage people remember, think about my body and soul. So the spirituality component. Physically, what are you doing for your body exercise and you meditating doing those type of things to to keep your body in store and you said your body is your temple.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And they get into the asleep.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So I'm in the event that you're discharged from my program or you choose to go to a different program. We want you to stay sober.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So utilize all the skills that we're giving you a route through the conversations to abstain from those mood altering substances and connect with another programs. These
Brandon Cordova: Events.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So what are some short term or long term goals that you
Brandon Cordova: Want to just
Brandon Cordova: Continue to stay off.
Brandon Cordova: Of heroin and then maybe a long term goal eventually get off the Suboxone to
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So I know some goals that you mentioned starting up your own business, right.
Brandon Cordova: Yes. Yeah, I'm gonna do that. Regardless, but
Brandon Cordova: I plan on doing that, like, within the next couple of weeks.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: That to the goal because like I said, it helps us when someone looks into see what is Brandon working towards
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: According to that anyone that comes into the
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Program Porsche working for sobriety. Because if you weren't with it from the group, and you wouldn't participate in our program. So that goes without saying, but we also want to know what gets you going to keep you accountable with sleep besides just wanting to be out of, you know, just
Brandon Cordova: Well for me, like, soon as I get my, my first business license and I start marketing and get that flow again give them a car, get a house again everything I lost because this time I literally got out and have
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: A rebuilding phase.
Brandon Cordova: Yeah, when
Brandon Cordova: I went to prison. I, I had all my shirt equipment to make shirts and
Brandon Cordova: Everything was gone. My wife.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Well, I hope that you know you stay the course that businesses will
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Play out with you so that you can have things to keep in place and you can be a good example for your children.
Brandon Cordova: Thank you.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: You have any questions for me.
Brandon Cordova: I'm knock on another go to is, I wrote in college because I wanted to become a alcohol and drug counselor, so that's
Brandon Cordova: You
Brandon Cordova: Know, but I just, I feel like I could I could help people because I've been through it.
Brandon Cordova: Some people like they're they're naive to their addiction and I don't listen to you.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: everything that's going on.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: But I think that's good. Those are some good goals to attain to
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: The business I give it to the entrepreneurship. The hustle, the drive the kids a lot of determination to have your own business. And so, that same determination, apply it to your company.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And your wife gets out be strong in order accountable to us to grind people owe it to your children so that this cycle doesn't repeat itself. I mean, could you imagine your children having to rebuild Ivan stuff and then having to start all over.
Brandon Cordova: Yeah, I understand.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So you see a therapist. Um, how often
Brandon Cordova: Have we do here weekly
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Okay, so the next one you here for me because if you're already seeing a therapist. I don't want to counteract with that. But it's been amazing. You want some additional support.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: You could reach out to me had actually sent me not only you see it. I'm like, three, one, something you had a whole bunch of numbers. These numbers.
Yeah.
Brandon Cordova: Whichever
Brandon Cordova: Way.
Brandon Cordova: Yes. Yeah, I'd received several emails from bright health. I just
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Okay but NBA want additional support, you can reach out to me. I'm Jessica Bailey here.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And like I said I could always just respond back and something that you want to do a session.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: But, um, you might hear from you again if I need to update your treatment plan for the trigger player needs to be updated every three months.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So I know you may see me do want to say, okay, Brian. And let's touch base. Let's reconnect. For me, how's the business going and they will reflect on more short term and long term goals. Okay, right. Well, thanks for coming and being on time.
Brandon Cordova: All right. You're welcome.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Have a good night and best wishes to you.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Right from her recovery.
Brandon Cordova: All right. Thank you. Bye. Thank you. Bye.